In the previous section, we already learn
about dynamic routing eigrp.
Next in this section, we are going learn about
dynamic routing ospf.
But before that, let’s setup the topology
first, as always,
we will learn ospf with 2 router first.
So here let’s import 2 router, and let’s
also import 2 pc. Let’s change the name,
this is router 2 and this is router 1.
This is pc 2, and this is pc 1.
Let’s connecting router 1 to router 2, router 1
to pc 1, and router 2 to pc 2.
For ip addressing, here router 1, the ip address
is 10.10.10.1/24, here 10.10.10.2/24,
router 1 that connected to pc 1 is 192.168.1.1/24, pc1
192.168.1.2/24,
router 2 that connected to pc2 is 192.168.2.1/24, and pc2 192.168.2.2/24.
Okay now let’s configure the ip address
on all router and pc. Let’s start with router 1.
No, enable, configure terminal, let’s start
with fa0/0, so interface fa0/0, no shutdown,
the ip address is 10.10.10.1 255.255.255.0,
Next for fa0/1, interface fa0/1, no shutdown,
ip address 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0.
Okay now we have done on router 1, next let’s
configure router 2.
No, enable, configure terminal, let’s start
with fa0/0, interface fa0/0, no shutdown,
ip address 10.10.10.2 255.255.255.0, next
for fa0/1, interface fa0/1, no shutdown,
ip address 192.168.2.1 255.255.255.0
Okay now we have done configuring ip address
on router 1 and router 2, next let’s configure
the ip address on pc 1 and pc 2, let’s start
with pc 1, the ip address is 192.168.1.2
and the gateway is 192.168.1.1,
Next for pc 2, the ip address is 192.168.2.2
and the gateway is 192.168.2.1
Okay now we have done configuring ip address
on all router and pc.
I think enough for this video. In the next video, we are going to
configure dynamic routing ospf
so pc 1 and pc 2 will able to communicate each others.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.